we are going to talk about our old
friend daniel the youtuber known as
hiding in my room and we're going to
talk about
dallas philosophy
so if you have no idea who daniel is or
why i'm talking about it if you have no
interest whatsoever in the critique of
the character knowing the internet as
hiding in my room stick with the video
anyway and what i have to say about
daniel really is to lead us in a kind of
investigation and reflection on the
meaning of life
how to lead a meaningful life what it
means for us to be ourselves to do what
is in keeping with our own nature
um
i think i'm gonna lead you through a
series of questions about what he should
do with his life
on youtube and off youtube
real life and life as an art form and
his life as a creative artist
that will be useful for you as a viewer
in reflecting on your own life what you
should do with your life even if again
you have no idea who daniel is who is
this mysterious figure hiding in my room
now
you may wonder in what way and to what
extent is daoist philosophy still a part
of my own life i'm not going to digress
to talk about my own history as a
philosopher and researcher who's learned
many languages and studied many things
including both bison and taoism both
inside the university and outside the
university both in the eastern world and
the western world i've lived in asia for
years i've
known buddhist monks and spent time in
buddhist monasteries and i've also spent
time on the academic side
not digressing into that i got an email
recently
with the provocative title
steroid mazard
my family name is mazar and they said
eric in case you didn't okay so steroid
massage so if your name were smith this
would be like you getting an email
that's titled steroid smith i received
this email on september 12 2021.
quote
isil
you talk a lot of smack about anabolic
steroids and the users of these
substances
you dash dash
a tall burly bald man
self-proclaimed to be hung like a horse
oozing confidence and sex appeal who can
make love up to a dozen times on a good
day
ellipsis dot dot dot
not every man is lucky enough to
naturally have copious amounts of
testosterone coursing through their
veins
period new paragraph
there is a difference between use and
abuse
period
cheers
end of email
some of you may not believe i actually
say some of you might think
i could have never made up this email
right if you think there is no way i
could i'd lack the imagination did you
go
someone wrote into me with this
commentary this
question this challenge okay now how do
you think i replied i replied
very directly taking a page out of
daoist philosophy so those of you who
have read some taoist philosophy in
english translation whether that's the
dao de jing or the chongza
you will
recognize the imagery and the pattern of
thinking i display as follows so this is
my reply
to this anonymous viewer and as far as i
know i've never interacted with this
person before someone i as far as i know
it was never
quote the sparrow cannot be improved by
stretching his legs longer
thinking that he ought to be a crane
nor can the crane be improved by
hunching down shorter to imitate the
sparrow
an aggressive person should not seek out
their self-improvement through sedatives
like marijuana etc nor should a sedate
person
try to improve themselves
through stimulants
i think that each of us can be more than
we are and i said again
i think that each of us
can be
more than we are but this more is
achieved by working with our nature
not against it
not medicating our nature as if it were
a
disability and living despite it
this is a lesson that was difficult for
me to learn also
i was tempted at this point the email to
really get further into that and i'm
happy to get further but i will say
again this is a lesson that was
difficult for me to learn also and
having learned it
that lesson can remain difficult to live
with
i have the experience
of having sex more than 12 times in a
day
i have also
the experience of living in celibacy
for many years at a time
now we're gathered here today to talk
about this cat and try to save his soul
give him some better direction give her
some some better advice in life okay now
by the way i have never identified as
being uh hung like a horse i'm vegan
that would be speciesism okay i've i've
i believe i have never compared myself
to a horse in any
manner or facet neither of my
personality nor my physique i don't
identify as horse-like
anyway
right right um
[Laughter]
so you know that that's his his
inference or his his fantasy about me or
or what have you but nevertheless i
think everyone watching this video right
now some people will be watching this
video it's the first thing they've ever
seen on my youtube channel they're here
because they know who daniel is they
know who hiding my words right away
they're gonna pick up on a lot of
differences between me and daniel and a
lot of people would attribute those
differences to testosterone now i think
that's kind of part of the pseudoscience
and astrology of our times there's a lot
of these myths having a big jaw means
you have high testosterone having being
bald means you have high testosterone
having big testicles means you have
testosterone like seriously you know
there's this whole range of things this
whole range of characteristics that my
speaking voice having a deep speaking
voice having a certain kind of
confidence that all these things relate
to testosterone
i really think this is a
pseudoscientific delusion in our times
that we basically made this into like an
astrological sign that this is something
like you know being a virgo being a
taurus being a pisces you know that
we've invented a character type and then
we make inferences or claims about the
supposed scientific and evolution
evolutionary basis about this this
character and then i think there are
many things that are kind of misleading
and bad and wrong about seeing the world
that way we're not going to get to that
great length here unless if you guys in
the audience are interested you can ask
me and i'll
i'll talk more about it but
you know
you didn't know me when i was 16.
you know i was involved in the theater
i still am
you know
uh when i was involved in the theater i
was surrounded by a lot of effeminate
guys some were gay but some were
straight men who took on the kind of
mannerisms of that working in that
milieu now what do i mean by that in the
same way if you become a car salesman
you may take on the mannerisms of a car
salesman from the guys you work with and
what that industry is like if you go
into the army you may take on the
mannerisms but let me tell you something
if you're in the theater
there are
effeminate
mannerisms there's a way of speaking
there's a way of presenting yourself as
sophisticated that you can you can take
on
it is not hard for me to imagine how i
could have developed a totally different
set of mannerisms and behaviors
which have nothing to do with
testosterone right and so i'm not going
to digress this again unless people are
addressed it'll tell more the kind of
self-confidence i have
something lacking in hiding in my room's
youtube channel who is this person on
and off camera okay it actually doesn't
come from
how much sex i have it doesn't come from
how good i am in bed it doesn't come
from my testosterone levels or my sperm
count or my height or the width of my
shoulders or the size of my jaw or my
bald it's actually none of that
my self-confidence
comes from leading a meaningful life
right it really is the deep
self-confidence of knowing that i have a
meaningful life and this may sound
[ __ ] up but think it all the way
through
i'm confident that i could have a
meaningful life
if i'm put in prison for ten years okay
that's how confident i am
now there are guys who will [ __ ] you
they'll say they're not afraid to go to
prison or they're not afraid to die
because they think they're the toughest
guy in the prison i don't think that
i don't think i'm the are you kidding me
what what prison is this
i completely assume i'm not remotely the
toughest guy in the prison i don't think
i'm the smartest guy in the prison
depends on the person i could you know
there are some prisons you know but
there could be people smarter than me
definitely bigger than me stronger than
me harder working than me in the present
there are
all kinds of characters give me this
prison okay but my confidence is
that i can still be leading a meaningful
life in that prison i'm still happy with
my myself i'm still happy with who i am
like i still feel like i'm a wonderful
person
if i'm in prison i get to wake up every
day and be me and i'm so positively
motivated i mean whatever book i'm
reading i could be reading the same
books in prison seriously
that i still live that life and that's
still rewarding and positive for me to
wake up every day in prison
that's the confidence i have right now
even more likely i mean we none of us
know if we're gonna end up in prison it
could be unfortunate many ways if i have
to work at mcdonald's
we were talking my girlfriend and i
about the youtuber daxflame if you don't
know who daxflame is don't google it
you'll be disappointed daxflame of
course was very unhappy about working uh
in an ice cream shop scooping ice cream
and serving ice cream i could be happy
working in an ice cream shop you know
going to prison
i'm living a meaningful life you know i
i know in this pragmatic sense i know
what the meaning of life is meaning i
know how to live a meaningful life and
that's the confidence i carry with me
everywhere okay now look guys
[Music]
there's always somebody with a bigger
dick than you
okay objectively
all right and there's always somebody
who
for this particular woman
would be better in bed than you right
that's not objective that's subjective
different women like different things
my girlfriend i'm melissa we're so
compatible it's one of the reasons not
jealous it's very different to it for me
it's very difficult to imagine any other
man being more compatible with her than
i am and giving her more orgasms per
hour than i do like we really are a
match but that's subjective if you're
going to have experience with a lot of
women
10 women like listen listen your whole
life you sleep with 10 women do you no
matter how confident you are that you
are objectively good in bed subjectively
you're not going to be good for all
those women there are women who are
going to be into things whether you
think of that as a fetish what it
doesn't matter whether you know how
everything there are women
where what they enjoy about sex is not
what you
want to do with it there are women who
like if you sleep with enough women no
matter how good you are in bed there are
women who are going to be disappointing
you
and they may just frown they may cry
they may
mock you
and ridicule you right
when i go into the bedroom with once i
go to bed with with a woman as a
complete stranger i have no sexuality
it's the first time sleeping with him
okay
my confidence
is not built on the fact that i'm great
in bed right
and like i am
i am but
i don't like peeing on people like i
don't like you know there's all kinds of
crazy stuff women are into that i'm not
into right you know i mean like i can
claim i'm great in bed objectively right
if you sleep with enough women sooner or
later you're going to get with this
chick and she's into peeing she's into
whatever she's into she's turned on by
feet or whatever her thing is
something she likes whether it's
mainstream or obscure that you you don't
fit
you know whether that's physically
psychologically in terms of technique
right in terms of what you know sooner
or later
you're gonna get with the woman who
laughs at you right or you're gonna kill
the one who weeps or everyone it's bad
one way or another okay so what does
your self-confidence come from you see
what i'm saying it can't be
based on the fact that you're great in
bed that you're great at sex
right so now i've used this as an
example because it's easy for people to
relate to and there's a very clear
element of fear all right but i could
transfer this to totally non-sexual
example briefly digress give you another
one you'll see this this applies to
everything like okay
i am an incredibly talented language
teacher
i can teach you english i can teach you
chinese i can teach you lotion i can
teach you languages i don't know that
much of like i could probably do a
really good job of teaching you the
basics of like korean ojibwe even though
i only studied that for like two
semesters or something like i only have
this very rudimentary ability but
i'm an incredibly talented language
teacher melissa and i were talking to
someone recently over skype
and she was saying look isil you are so
great at this i was basically teaching
her english
just in passing very casually well not
as a job but you know she said look you
really need to do this as your career or
you need to do this on youtube like
you're so great at teaching this is
someone who could who could appreciate
it right now i can sit here and say to
you like objectively like as if it's an
objectively real fact that i'm a great
teacher specifically that i'm a great
language teacher then i'm great at
explaining linguistic concepts right but
it's the same [ __ ] as i was just saying
about sexuality because the reality is
there's a kind of compatibility
necessary between the teacher and the
student and not every student can
appreciate what it is i'm doing and i've
worked with hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of students so i know that
one really briefly there was this one
girl who came into my class this was in
cambodia but i had i had almost the
exact same thing happen with two girls
uh in in yunnan and china there's one
girl who came in in cambodia and i'm
doing this you know like no offense but
in some ways
i mean i i didn't meet every teacher at
school but i think i was the best
teacher in that school in that
university i was teaching university
level
i think it was the best language teacher
english teacher in that university and
you know you can tell i have this great
theatrical style and i really reach out
to the students i'm really making on
kind of really talking with them and
really doing the language work and i'm
really prepared and i really understand
what i'm teaching and i understand their
language they were always shocked i
could explain because i knew pali i knew
the ancient liturgical language i knew
how to explain english grammar using
cambodian grammar because cambodian
grammar is from pali they were shocked
at that they were really impressive whoa
you know
and so no no other teacher could do that
could go into it's kind of ancient
cambodian to explain to a modern
campaign so there's all this stuff i
could do so well
and there's this sulky little girl that
she's a college student but she was a
really small
young looking university student she was
sitting there and you know not looking
at me and she's selling she doesn't like
the class she's on the teacher you know
i i forget what i said i said you were
something like oh you know how did you
like class day you know you you didn't
participate much like you didn't know
you should you know you shouldn't think
because you know some of the students
that are you know they're some of them
are getting involved and getting the
most
she's sitting there soaking
and she she holds up for me a crossword
puzzle
she said
i did this crossword puzzle like in
class that day
she says
this is what we should do every class
every day you should do crossword
and then you should correct them and
give that
what a philosophy of education like this
is this is your idea of what a good
teacher is right this year so okay the
point is i can sit here in front right
like i'm an objectively good
language teacher and i can sit here in
front like i'm objectively good in bed
and there's a sense in which it's true
there's a sense in which we can say
objectively what is and isn't a good
english teacher what isn't is isn't
being better right
but i know
what we're talking about as objectively
real is actually inter-subjectively
real okay bread does not taste good
objectively bread tastes good
for a human being who has a hungry
stomach it's relative to how hungry you
are as well as the subjective judgment
of your mouth your mind your cultural
background what is and isn't delicious
bread bread can't be delicious in and of
itself right so when i go into that
situation
why is it that i'm so confident
simultaneously knowing
that
i'm great in bed and individual people
will not be compatible with me and will
will subjectively feel than about a bit
i feel i'm a great teacher
but specific students will not be
compatible with my teaching style or
does not appreciate it will not benefit
from it and they will they will be mopey
and they may be morose and they may even
denounce me as a bad teacher or whatever
right why is it because i'm going in not
with the confidence that i'm going
satisfy you and not with the confidence
that you were gonna be compatible with
me it's that i'm leading a meaningful
life anyway and i don't need you [ __ ]
like you've got nothing to add to my
life there's nothing you can take away
from it
i'm happy if i go to jail i'm happy if i
got to work at mcdonald's i'm happy
scooping ice cream at an ice cream shop
you know whatever like i'm happy alone
you know like like i'm happy if i'm
single if we're talking romantically i'm
happy if i have no student you know what
i mean like my confidence
doesn't rely on other people in that
you see
no again
we used a sexy example and a non-sexy
example you can extend this to playing
music
art
making there's a lot of stuff you can
you can apply this to but you know
obviously we're partly talking about
someone's someone's love life here all
right talking about talking about
uh okay uh guys i'm seeing your your
your questions come in i i just did this
moment i don't want to digress but if
you're talking about something on topic
i'm uh i'm interested to see what you
guys have to say okay so coming back to
come back this this question
from the audience that i already they
already read out all right
so this guy is writing into me and
saying
that i'm opposed to people taking
steroids which i am
start you know i'm a critic of the
steroid culture i'm a critic of people
getting into testosterone boosting drugs
steroids performance drugs of various
kinds and this guy is writing to me
saying that basically it's unfair for me
to say this because allegedly presumably
supposedly i already have these
advantages that i personally don't need
testosterone booster i don't need
steroids so who am i to judge who might
complain and he closes by saying he says
explicitly not every man is lucky enough
to naturally have copious amounts of
testosterone
and then he goes on to say there's a
difference between use and abuse right
and he's saying that i'm in this
privileged position where i don't need
these drugs but other people do right so
then think about the answer i'm getting
back to think of what i've what i've
just explained to you now
i say back to him no the sparrow cannot
be improved by stretching his legs
longer thinking that he ought to be a
crane nor can the crane be improved by
hunching down shorter to imitate the
sparrow
an aggressive person should not seek out
their self-improvement through sedatives
like marijuana nor should a sedate
person try to improve themselves through
stimulants all right each of us can be
more than we are
but this more
is achieved by working with our nature
not against it not medicating our nature
as if it were a disability and living
despite it
okay so i'll read through some of these
uh comments now obviously i have more to
say and uh if you guys don't already
know title of the video uh you know we
know what it is ultimately i'm coming
back to here while we're having this
philosophical discussion about taoism in
my life and in your lives also i hope we
got 21 people in the audience it would
help me now 22. help me if you guys
would hit thumbs up so that we have 22
thumbs up with 22 people and more people
will join the crowd and more people will
say interesting and uh possibly
offensive things in my comment section
to drive the the conversation uh further
okay so here is nacho who asked the
question quote isil would you really be
happy working for hold on a sec
would you really be happy working for a
company that sells dairy products so you
might as well dairy products meat
products or or what have you anything
like this so you know nacho
i i think you're a relatively recent fan
of the channel it's it's a turning point
in my life you know but i gotta tell you
i really had to think about would i be
happy in the army or not you know would
i be happy fighting maybe an unjust war
or maybe fighting a war where i
sympathize with the objectives but i
feel it's being fought by unjust means
so
you know i am at a stage in my life
where i can join the army and and fight
fight for the american side in
afghanistan or any of these examples the
war i i signed up to fight in as there
was the war against isis you know and we
can engage in a critique of all kinds of
things but you know that's that involves
killing people and it may involve you
personally getting shot or injured i
mean in america's wars today it's very
unlikely you'll die some american
soldiers die but you know more likely
that you'll you'll be injured and maimed
you'll be impacted in that way
um
and i'm telling you i can be happy doing
that i'm telling you i'm gonna be happy
uh going to prison so yes you know i i
am saying i can be happy doing something
that says that's as odiously immoral and
in various ways kind of exploitative um
yeah no i am i am saying that and that's
because of who i am now and what i carry
with me and and implicitly something i'm
saying because i mentioned this before
in on my youtube channel someone said
like
that would not have been true of me at
18 years old or 16 years old it would
have really shaken me to my core
to be doing something immoral and
challenging and you know to wake up and
look at my own hands and look at the
mirror and say is this who i really am
and is this all i am is this who i am am
i this killer am i this person who kills
for the army am i this person who gets
shouted at and follows orders i don't
understand you know like the way your
own your sense of self
changes if you're 16 or 18 in the army
or if you're 16 or 18 and working at
mcdonald's or something some of these i
i do think that really impacts i do and
i've talked about the example also i've
known a lot of women who worked as uh
bartenders and waitresses and i think
that
some 16 18 21 and i think it really does
impact but no for me now and and why
because i didn't have that
self-confidence that i didn't have that
meaningful life you know so on and so
forth you know
yeah so joshua lay i see you're making
an intelligent point but the wording is
not is not so intelligent so joshua says
quote then it would be an objective
stance
taken off of a trend of being a good
teacher or a good lover with slight
outliers so what joshua is saying is you
can talk about being an objectively good
teacher or objectively good in bed
because by talking about a trend line or
an average uh
trend is not quite the same as an
average
calculating a trend line on the chart
and then just dealing with outliers
what if you're an elvis impersonator
and you live in a country where nobody
knows who elvis is
okay so i'm actually taking a more
radical nihilistic position than you
josh i don't think how good a teacher
you are can be arrived at through an
average
of wrong answers and i don't like i know
that's gonna sound weird there's a sense
in which how good a musician you are
can't be arrived at through an average
of wrong answers because how good an
elvis impersonator you are can't be
arrived at that way either there has to
be some other criterion for what is a
meaningful life and what does it really
mean to be an elvis impersonator and as
crazy as that may sound where you really
understand the art form and you really
understand what you're doing and you
understand your own excellence in this
even if you live somewhere where nobody
else
nobody else can appreciate how you've
captured the warbling in elvis's voice
you know when you know or what it is
you're getting across emotionally or or
intellectually in your art so i don't
think you can come to uh a simple
objective stand and guys again i'm
seeing this for a reason this is not
chalkboard philosophy i'm not saying
this to get the theorem right on the
chalkboard i'm saying this because some
of you have ears to hear and you know
this is meaningful in your own lives
some of you are writing a book and
nobody appreciates it you know not even
your own wife or your own girlfriend
you know some of you are working on some
project it may be a business
it may be a book it may be you know it
may be music and you don't have anyone
in your life who appreciates your own
parents don't understand it and don't
don't approve of it and you have to make
these kinds of decisions they're
high-stakes decisions even if there's no
money involved they're decisions that
affect you know so many years of your
life in such a deep way you know and and
i'm saying to you no you can't even if
it is something as simple as being a
teacher you're a teacher let's say you
teach sign language and your students
all hate you you know you this really
may be your experience you have these
[ __ ] students who don't appreciate
what you're trying to do as a teacher of
sign language you've got to start asking
yourself really tough questions and you
know maybe you're a bad teacher maybe
you are maybe you're a bad elvis
impersonator maybe you're a bad artist
i'm not saying that's impossible i'm not
but i'm pointing out just how deep and
difficult this kind of this kind of
evaluation is right like
uh i got fan mail recently from a couple
people
saying that i am an excellent teacher of
economics they really appreciate when i
talk about the stock market or when i
talk about economic and and political
problems okay
do you think it would be an easy vision
for me to make like even on the basis of
this fan mail because whatever a couple
thousand people watch my videos and you
for me to make that decision to devote
my life to that area of study in that
that area of teaching
you know
i feel obviously like the positive
feedback can be misleading also right
the point is you could have negative
feedback you're trying to teach sign
language none of these kids appreciate
what you're doing you're trying to teach
something whatever it is but you can
also have positive feedback that's
misleading so yeah um
it's deeper and more difficult than that
the the average
of wrong answers is simply another wrong
answer so it's it's hard
oh
all right so xyz media says so welcome
to the crowd xyz but um
i i don't recall you ever being in the
the audience before it's a it's a name i
remember so he writes in quote this may
offend you but from what i've seen i
believe you are so you got a grammatical
error here you got a spelling error i
don't know if english is your first
language
i believe you are using meaningfulness
as a mask for some level of narcissism
i want to see more videos of you openly
criticizing yourself and your faults
okay so
fair
but one there already are
youtube videos on my channel doing that
there are plenty of videos talking about
my faults but what you will find also as
you watch more of my videos is that it's
normally in exactly these same videos
that i'm talking about because whenever
i talk about leading a meaningful life i
talk about all the disadvantages of
leading me for life i talk about the
tremendous sorrow the tremendous
suffering the tremendous disadvantages
that come with it with the path i took
myself i talk so much about regrets you
can just search my channel for for the
word regret okay but here's what i have
to say to you xyz media
okay
how would you feel
if you had grown up
in papua new guinea you had no access to
radio you had no access to television
you grew up in a remote island in papua
new guinea
fishing with your father and grandfather
climbing up and down trees and weaving
baskets out of rattan
okay
and then you see a man who comes to your
island and sets up a stage and starts
impersonating elvis starts singing and
dancing the songs of elvis presley
you might think this is narcissism
in your own cultural idiom you know you
might think this is just this man's ego
this man is a crazy narcissist to dress
up in these strange clothes and have his
hair in this strange way and sing this
strange song
it's all it is to you is strange
but you're not actually measuring his
narcissism you're just measuring the
depths of your own shallow in
comprehension you can't comprehend who
he is or what he's doing or why it's
meaningful or what's significant what
sorry what its significance is what its
emotional significance for the audience
that does appreciate you know there's an
audience that appreciates that has some
emotional meaning these particular songs
these memories of elvis and this this
invitation and you can't appreciate the
humility that's involved that it's
actually not narcissism
right because what he's doing is on the
one hand for his audience and on the
other hand it is for the memory of elvis
presley that there's a there's a mark
he's working towards right so i
understand i understand what you're
saying here right but
all i get from this from your statement
is your admission of your own ignorance
now i'm going to give you i'm going to
contextualize this
i made videos talking about buddhist
philosophy in the past whole bunch of
them i don't know how many i don't know
if there are 20 or 100 i've made a lot
of videos tell them what philosophy
other people including other youtubers
like unnatural vegan they responded to
that as if it was egomania
not narcissism strictly as if like i'm
on some ego trip right
why
because they have no comprehension
whatsoever of what i'm doing what i'm
talking about or what extreme humility
is actually involved in what i'm doing
what i'm doing for the audience like in
this moment and talking about my life as
a scholar of buddhism right it involves
a lot of humility and even humiliation i
mean that you know it really does saying
look when i went to live in thailand
laos and cambodia these were my
misconceptions this is what i was
ignorant about this is what i was trying
to do when i learned it was impossible
when i first got involved with buddhism
and buddhist philosophy these were my
youthful ignorant assumptions then i
learned how wrong was there's a lot of
humility there's a lot of humiliation
they can't understand that they look at
that and they see
they look at that and they see egomaniac
they look at that and they see boasting
they're so dumb
they're so ignorant and they're so
fragile in their own sense of ego
that all they can hear is this is the
guy boasting that he used to live in
cambodia this is a guy boasting that
he's an expert about buddhist philosophy
okay well [ __ ] you i did live in
cambodia i am an expert in buddhist
philosophy and if you weren't such a
self-censored
self-centered
shallow ignorant person right you would
realize that what i'm explaining to you
is precisely the regrets i have in life
the mistakes i've made that you're
asking for me to criticize myself tell
my fault and that's what i am doing
and you're so ignorant you're so
incapable of understanding what i'm what
i'm saying that you're misperceiving
that self-criticism as if it were
boasting as if it were narcissism right
and let me say
this is what i have to share
okay i went to cambodia
with good intentions i went to laos
with good intentions okay and i've come
back with regrets
and i'm saying to the audience don't
make the same mistakes i made and if you
stick with this video you're going to
see a lot of what i say is don't make
the mistakes of me and if you see that
as narcissism
what does that say about you
all right how many people how many
people in this crowd grew up going to
church
how many of you actually literally grew
up with sermons it may be zero like
maybe all of you grew up more or less
more or less atheist or just in a family
that was only nominally religious and
didn't take your church compare what i'm
doing now to any sermon you've ever
heard
in a church
from a priest
from a pastor in a synagogue from a
rabbi
from a muslim cleric
all right if you really can't pick up on
the extent to which i'm i'm criticizing
myself right that just tells me
something about you if you can't pick up
on the extent to which i'm really
regretting decisions i'm sharing with
you those mistakes this is not what you
hear from authority figures from men of
faith
you know it's not
and i understand aesthetically it may
resemble a sermon
but there's a really deep difference
here you know
burn me
so i'm just catching up with your
comments today guys then i'll get back
to uh what's up with the video
i'd say sorry babe i know it's on your
mind or not melissa's off camera when
i'm saying babe i'm not addressing the
audience uh
babe i don't know but you know that
friend you had from
college
who you know sent you a bunch of insane
[Laughter]
really kind of insane and insulting uh
messages on on facebook that time you
know people who knew you in the past
i think what i just described now i
think that i think that really is that
same kind of thing i mean it's it's just
totally failing to get totally feeling
to understand the content of what i'm
doing in these youtube videos and just
responding to the container
you know and like and what what is the
container they're responding it's really
it's really like the mental level of
like a six-year-old like oh you think
you're important because you have the
self-confidence to make a video talking
about
the politics of bernie sanders or you
know whatev whatever it is that's on my
youtube channel at that time you know
and it's like and they can just respond
to that
as if it's narcissism and they can't
even watch the video and see hey this is
someone who actually has the humility to
take the time to read bernie sanders
book and take notes
and then talk to you in the audience
kind of chapter about you like that's
what i'm doing that is actually humility
it's not egomania it's like well look
this is my background i've studied
politics for so many years i have a
university degree in politics now i'm
going to take the time to share with you
my thoughts after reading this book
there's a lot of humility in it you know
and there's a lot of humiliation and
opening yourself up to i'm just saying
but they they're kind of just responding
to that on the outside and they fear it
as some kind of commanding yeah
i don't want to do the conversation too
much but my response to that is i think
culturally at least where i grew up that
humility is confused with veneration
that you couldn't possibly criticize
bernie sanders like that that isn't yeah
right that doesn't relate to humility
right people will say like well if
you're a humble person you will look up
to other people and you know
speak positively rather than speaking
critically okay okay no i understand
yeah i think it's better to be
critical
i think though it's
what i'm saying is that that woman you
knew in college you got touched through
and those types of people
i don't even think there's that much
thought put into it
um
and no no but i would point out
you know it doesn't matter so if i were
doing movie reviews it doesn't matter if
it's a positive movie review or a
negative movie review the response is at
this six-year-old level
yes who do you think you are to make a
movie review at all
you must be an egomaniac you must be a
narcissist and the reality is no like
dude i do a lot of work i do this with
very lo very little paid back to me for
it so like no this is actually this kind
of very humble labor compared to what
you do in your job nine to five you know
there's very little you know honor or
dignity and understand that yeah yeah
that's awesome so it's just disagreeing
with you on that level is that like i
don't even think it's about whether i'm
praising bernie sanders or criticizing
him you know it's just that you that you
dare
you know yeah and they wouldn't and
that's you know
you know a lot of complex feelings i've
been through already come out of that
okay so just catching up with your with
your comments then we will get back to
uh the hero of our story here
okay so vanima is back in the audience
venom can i just ask to um can i just
ask you to rephrase your
your question you're asking something
about learning chinese but i don't know
what you're asking so i don't mind it's
off topic but
whatever you have to say
uh say it
so vanima look i don't even want to
digress in this venom i don't know how
long you've been watching the the
channel but i don't know why you would
come here and ask me to
um
enable comments on the videos you're
commenting to me right now
you're not paying me one dollar and i'm
not making one dime out of this
and
you know i'm taking the time to talk to
you even though you have not taken the
time to write your
question in correct english frankly now
you know i also know venom has mentioned
that she is a very young person she
could i don't know if you're 18 years
old or what that's why i assume your
comments are poorly written
um
you know but if you've looked at any one
video on my channel for for more than
last year
it says in the description
if you want to know why comments are
disabled on my channel
here is the answer in a relatively
uplifting five minute video and then
there's the link
so
you know what is it you can't deal with
here you know
um
okay this is vanilla do you want to ask
me now or no i'm i'm ready to move on
but i don't see how anyone can
participate in this conversation if it's
not it's not the first time stumbling on
my channel you don't know the answer to
that question you don't know why it is
okay
this is this is the problem guys this
makes me feel like not answer the
questions all right vanna how many years
experience do you have as a youtuber how
many years experience do i have
what do you what do you think you're
gonna teach me like this is just a joke
you know
i'm so glad you came to my audience and
think that you know better than me about
something i've what have i made now
three thousand youtube videos
uh more than five million views in like
seven eight years or something like you
know i really just i really just have
zero respect for someone like you know i
don't show up at your workplace and tell
you what to do okay i mean you know
um
i i i really just don't understand how
you can enter into a conversation that
that insincerely
with that expectation you know
um
all right anyway and as i say you know
you were complaining about this at a
time when i'm i'm right now stopping
what i want to do i'm taking the time
out to speak to you one-on-one and you
still have no respect for it so
you know as 50 cent used to say
uh respect your check so yeah james says
he ain't got time for that
anyway
you know sorry it's just um
it's it's one of those things
like
i've spoken so much and lately about the
philosophy of being a youtuber and the
ways in which this is rewarding the ways
and this is related to hiding in my room
so you guys don't know if you check his
channel right now if you just look at
the list of video titles he's talking
about deleting his youtube channel so
this is a good segue he's talking about
giving up on youtube forever and he's
talking about the ways in which youtube
has destroyed his life so i have lately
made many videos you know philosophizing
about this
and
any idiot could see the extent to which
youtube has destroyed my life any of you
can glance around and say this comes
with a really serious cost you know
there were really really serious
sacrifices and really serious
disadvantages i've lately said this
brings us back to hiding my room in a
big way it's a lot like making the
decision to appear in pornography if
you're going to start making
pornographic videos you get a lot of
judgment you get a lot of abuse you get
a lot of really negative harassment and
distractions that come into your life
and it's you know there are there's a
lot of heartache there's a lot of
disappointment there's there's a real
cost
um that comes with the decision to
to be a youtuber you know
um
but you know above and beyond that
i mean
you know what i'm interested in doing
what i'm willing to set aside time to do
is to have really meaningful connections
with real people who are using their
real names and their real faces on the
internet and taking real risks and who
are motivated to do real things
uh to paraphrase the rapper notorious
big
real people do real things so vanima i'm
going to give you a contrast to yourself
i had a guy write to me recently at
length who was drafting a letter to
present to a judge in what you could
call a human rights court case in the
united states of america now this guy he
has good intentions and politically he's
trying to make the world a better place
but he does not have my educational
background in politics he also hasn't
obsessed over
politics for decades of his life i mean
most of my education is informal and so
on and so forth
and so this guy who i've spent a couple
hours talking to and interacting with i
took the time
and i said okay look here's my feedback
and how i think you should rewrite this
letter of the judge and he he did thank
me he really appreciated uh the feedback
i gave although i i didn't have as much
time as i might like i don't have so
many hours i only have so many hours in
the day
but anyway and then he wrote back to me
later and said that he had taken the
revisions and presented the to the judge
and that his statement of the judgment
accepted and added to the record and
it'll have its its little bit of
political impact okay now why did i ever
get on youtube why did i start talking
about vegan politics or or any kind of
politics i'm willing to take several
hours to talk to a person like that and
help a person that i don't think i've
made one dollar out of that and maybe
i'm wrong because i think he does pay i
think he does support me on patreon for
one dollar a month you know it's not and
by the way i also get no fame it's a
totally uh
anonymous form of participating in
politics
you know
i'm willing to take the time to help
real people doing real things to improve
their own lives to improve the lives of
others you know that's the kind of
generosity of spirit i've got and i come
out here on camera and
you know again and again
and my generosity is basically never
rewarded by people like you in the
audience i mean it's it's really close
to 100
negative experiences
so you know for someone like you to come
in the the audience and say oh well why
don't you spend 10 hours a week
moderating and replying to a youtube
comment section
you know what you may not know how many
hours a week it is i do
you know i have years and years of
experience why don't you take time
responding to basically sexual
harassment from thousands of anonymous
people and sometimes it's anti-semitic
harassment i get that too sometimes it's
political harassment from people who are
neo-nazis from people who are communists
sometimes it's just from people who are
incredibly stupid vegans who you know
intensely i've endured that for years
you know and i'm still out here trying
you know i said before that if you want
to do this kind of thing this does
relate to in a deep level relates to
hiding my room
you know this should have been the title
of the videos you know if you want to do
youtube you have to be willing to get
your heart broken
again and again and get up the next day
and say okay now i'm going to do it
again i'm going to have my heart broken
again you know and my whole experience
with vegan activism and political it's
been heartbreaking it's been nothing but
disappointment there's not one positive
counter example it's been heartbreaking
again and again and again and no offense
but you people disappointed me yeah this
is not daniel that let me down it is you
people in the audience who let me down
again and again including with my very
very humble aspirations to do things
like organizing a uh organizing a
conference uh related to uh it was a
specific issue in veganism this
political movement and then collect the
conference papers and publish it as a
book there were very specific kind of
intellectual activist things i i wanted
to do um there were things i offered to
do to help other people
and when i needed help
nobody helped me that's my experience
okay but i'm still out here
i'm still out here getting my heart
broken i'm still here offering to help
people you know and it's just you know
it's just awful to have to face this
again and again where people expect me
to be pouring time into crap like
moderating comment sessions and dealing
with the same
stupid hostile ill-intentioned questions
again and again so it's going to be
people asking the same questions about
eating meat it's going to be people
asking the same questions about me being
a jew like really like a huge a huge
percentage of all the measures i've ever
gotten are anti-semitism guys i know you
haven't you know it's going to be the
same questions about
something another mean-spirited youtuber
made up
about my relationship with my ex-wife or
my daughter or my mom
again and again and again okay that's
what you're asking me to take the time
to deal with um and to get nothing you
know uh
nothing in return you know ever
so you know that's you know that's your
asking when you ask that kind of thing
um
okay anyway look so what i do is not for
everybody and also so vanima you know if
you're watching you know you could say i
gave you a chance
because you know
uh you and i've talked in the past i
mean you've made some intelligent
contributions guys in the past but you
can see what a really depressing effect
your comment has added me and how it's
really derailed this live stream
so you know
um you know thanks for nothing i mean i
really i really would have appreciated
it if you could have
said something positive
or you know contributed to the
conversation and spoken on topic instead
of doing what you've done because it's
you know it's derailed this into a
really dark
um
you know really dark and depressing you
know uh dead end where now i'm supposed
to gather up my sense of energy and
motivation and return to topic this
video okay
now maybe it's a good segue anyway okay
because what i wanted to talk about
today was this guy daniel and his
decision to give up on youtube
and what makes it an interesting example
so we have just alluded to actually a
lot of the stuff daniel has had to
endure so yeah i've just been talking
about the extent of which i have to deal
with constant abuse from the audience or
what have you and in different times
it's more sometimes it's more
anti-semitism and sometimes it's more
uh crazy communists or or what have you
and sometimes it's more crazy raw for
terry and vegans
there is no doubt that daniel is a guy
who has to endure a great deal of abuse
from his audience also so i alluded to
the fact that people send me hate mail
about my divorce from my ex-wife that's
a good comparison i am sure daniel gets
much more intense much more ridiculous
and abusive hate mail about his divorce
from his ex-wife his ex-wife was with
him on youtube
today she does in fact have her own
youtube channel
and on another person's youtube channel
she uploaded interviews talking about
how horrible their marriage was so there
was a lot of gossip around that there so
dude
i can relate
in effect i went through my own divorce
on youtube although my ex-wife never
started her own youtube channel she was
probably tempted at some point
but i have had divorce drama and i've
had that kind of
maelstrom of of innuendo against me on
on the internet before
um
i understand how he has now come to a
point where he looks back at his life
he feels that youtube has ruined it and
that he would be a better person if he
just deleted youtube entirely from his
life or what he's currently proposing as
a middle path that he deletes all of his
past videos that made him successful and
made him popular
and instead takes on a kind of phony and
almost anonymous identity on youtube of
making a kind of clean respectable
pablum content sort of neutral more
professional and respectable uh
content
okay so
look guys sorry you can see i'm trying
to speak on topic i just don't know why
i mean what's the point
of uh
what's the point of
you know trying to derail the
conversation this way
so you know i'd appreciate it if you're
gonna
participate in conversation
try to speak on my level
try to speak on topic try to contribute
the video in a positive way otherwise i
just i just don't see the point of
having the audience participate at all
um
yeah and here's someone from the
audience agreeing with me says i get the
whole comments are turned off
well anyway sorry i made a different
video talking about this but it's true
you know there's there's more than one
approach to youtube one approach you get
after youtube is have the comments open
and really put in the time every day to
reach out to people and thank them and
encourage them and gossip with them
and
i can remember i mean i've tried all
this stuff but let's put it this way if
you are the kind of person who while you
are working out at the gym wants to
pause between every exercise and check
your comment section and go through and
delete things and reply to things you
want to have this kind of constant
chatter with
you know strangers who uh you know
strangers who know nothing about you and
care nothing about you and so yeah this
for a certain kind of personality if
that's what you want in your life you
can go ahead and do it and of course
there are people who hire
hire staff to pretend to be them and
farm their their conversation this way
but anyway certainly certainly i mean
it's you know you wouldn't have a
conversation with people in a
cafe this way you wouldn't talk to
strangers on the street or in a coffee
shop this way so you know i do expect
people in my audience to step up to that
same level and talk to me the same way
you would in a coffee shop and i i do
expect people in the coffee shop to
speak on topic and on the same level
not to just raise something totally just
sam and it's within that same that same
uh remit you know
oh great question who is hiding who is
hiding in the room
so good good question um
yeah and sam says so this is on topic i
wonder if daniel will actually stick to
it anissian repeatedly promises to
delete his channel and quit youtube and
that doesn't fall through with his own
proclamation right okay i do think it's
a little bit deeper and a little bit
more interesting what's going on with
hiding in my room this way
uh as follows so the point is this
who is this guy daniel who is hiding in
my room
he doesn't sing
he doesn't dance he doesn't even really
tell jokes right
his act
is honesty the one thing he's got going
for him the one thing he really does
that brings in crowds and entertains
people makes his channel unique and
distinctive and always has is a kind of
confrontational honesty
um
often it seems like a sort of just
totally uninhibited
uh childlike honesty where it hasn't
even occurred to him to conceal the
things that everyone else would conceal
it hasn't occurred to him to be
indirect
rather than direct about things he has a
bluntness and honesty in dealing with
his own life which is the entire basis
of his fame and it's everything his
audience appreciates about it now
do i find that honesty shocking do i
find it offensive yes
but it's meaningful because it's not an
act he's not a stand-up comic he's not
pretending to be honest with things it's
his real life and he's he's really
honest about it i mean he used to make
videos i think all of them are now
deleted from his channel he used to make
videos talking about his own psychology
and cheating on his wife
and why he doesn't feel bad about
cheating on his wife and including
sleeping with prostitutes when he was
joining his wife and those videos
they are 100
the honest perspective of a man who
chooses to live that way and like in a
sense it's priceless
who else would say this stuff who else
would share it with you
like i think most men who live that way
and who feel the way he feels they would
never tell their best friend they said
they would never tell their closest
friends and they definitely would never
tell their own parents they definitely
would never tell their own wife like
this is how they feel about it this is
how they rationalize it in their own
mind this is you know
this is how they they assume other men
feel and so on
um you get his whole weltens you get his
whole world view you get his
pragmatic philosophy and you get to feel
that you get to see through his eyes and
to some extent the audience does benefit
it does have some educational lag as you
get to learn from his mistakes you also
get to see his agony so look you know uh
his work on the stock market
it's actually an interesting example
that confirms this so when he first
started making videos about the stock
market
i kind of had to wince and grit my teeth
i really disliked his early videos
because but he was making them very
honestly and sincerely he was in a
period of totally reckless optimism he
was going to become a millionaire by
trading stocks on the stock market but
just a few months later he starts to
figure out that he doesn't really
understand how the stock market works
that his strategy that he thought was
it was a can't fail strategy it was a
certain to succeed strategy that no
actually you know not only does he
recognize the extent to which he was
wrong but many of the people he
idealized and followed as stock market
gurus that their advice was bad and that
was wrong he starts to understand how
the style bar works oh
so again now already just by sheer dent
of his honesty he's doing something
really valuable and really meaningful
with youtube and you couldn't pay for
that like you could not pay someone
to i mean can most people
even with their closest friend at a bar
like a man who sits down with closing
drinking beer would never reflect on his
own high hopes and aspirations when he
first got involved in the stock market
and then how he was disillusioned how he
ended up losing all of the money he
gained and what his motivations were
and this is exactly the dude who does
that this is the one guy in a million
who has this again in some ways very
childlike lack of inhibition and in some
ways i think it's a kind of adult
commitment to really being rigorously
honest dangerously honest
in talking about his love life his
marriage his divorce
uh
so on and so forth but down to and
including uh this fantasy he had that he
would stop doing youtube entirely
because he would just be such a huge
success on the stock market and then the
reflections where he has the honesty to
put up how much money he's lost so now
by contrast there's a youtube channel i
really intensely hate you know
um
called uh brian turner invests
you know
and he is exactly dishonest in all the
ways hiding my room is honest if you
follow me on patreon you'll see i've
actually posted some charts where it's
like well he predicted this stock would
at least triple in value and instead
it's now at 50 percent of its value when
he made that prediction like look look
and there's no reflection he just hypes
these things and promotes himself and
presents himself as an expert and then
you don't get the doubt and
self-examination and self-analysis right
okay so you guys can tell
even though this is somebody i kind of
morally disapprove of in various ways i
wouldn't make the same choices uh he
makes in his life
this quality of searing honesty right
that is his act right that's not just
one aspect that's the whole value of
what he did on youtube and what he had
to contribute so it's equally disturbing
to hear him say that he wants to delete
his youtube channel and give up on it it
is equally disturbing for him to
threaten that and it's as it is for him
to threaten that he's just now going to
become another phony shallow pablum
youtube channel he said he's going to do
like
yeah travel videos like oh i climbed the
mountain in japan i went to the hot
springs tour of osaka or something you
know he's going to give a walking tour
of some
some neighborhood in osaka so that is
very different i'll come back and look
at the conversation you guys
that is very different from
someone like an isean whose strength was
in doing narrative scripted fictional
comedy videos or you know singing and
dancing videos or what have you you know
right so joshua lay says quote i
completely so by the way i think this is
an intelligent comment so i'm responding
joshua lay who i don't know by the way
welcome to the crowd josh i don't
remember your name uh i think i would
and when josh really says quote i
completely understand why you wouldn't
want to open up to those kinds of people
in the comments but it helps those of us
who wish to do mental battle in the
comment section and challenge opposition
and then says but i get it
right um
you know josh i i just say this honestly
i think a lot of people are bringing on
to the internet
attitudes that they cultivated sitting
at the dinner table
with their own parents
you know
and
what i have to say to you is
fighting
is not learning
and fighting is not teaching
so i get what you're talking about here
and i've never been a host to that in my
own youtube channel i've never hosted
that when i had a discord uh which i
don't anymore i've never posted that i
think that a lot of people
learn to fight with their parents that's
the main that's the main way they learn
to talk they see their parents fighting
and they fight with their parents and
there is this assumption built into the
dinner table conversation
that at the end of the conversation
you're going to hit a reset button
in a sense everything is forgiven and
forgotten and tomorrow you come back to
the same dinner table and you do the
same thing over again and nothing's
changed there's no progress nobody
learns anything and this is parallel
maybe to the american culture of the
situation comedy the sitcom on tv right
there's some conflict sometimes within a
family
there's a group of friends
you know there's a certain number of
regular cast members and then at the end
of the episode you press reset you can
watch the episodes in any order there's
no plot development nobody learns nobody
changes now obviously i can't say every
family
is like this
a lot of families are like this okay so
every time i sat down to dinner with my
father
he was the crazy communist and i was the
rebellious son who couldn't accept my
father's religion who couldn't support
communism you know i'm basically a
pro-democracy anti-communism kind of
person if you if you don't know me you
know and for a lot of people their
situation is their father is a
conservative christian
and every time they sit down to dinner
their father plays the role of the
conservative christian and they play the
role of the younger
more left-wing atheist freethinkers
and they do it at the dinner table again
and again and again
and people come onto the internet and
engage in these comment sections
uh and they're fighting but they're not
learning and i've got to tell you
something
it may it's the most familiar thing
to you or to millions of people if not
you
to millions of people this is the most
familiar thing because that's what they
grew up with in their own household but
it's completely fake it's completely
unreal
all right you know what real life is
real life is you have a conversation
with somebody that's five minutes long
and it changes your life forever
you change that day you change that
minute
you know
i mean it's about everything i mean it's
about youtube i mean it's about cheating
on your wife i mean this about ethical
decisions you know um
uh i remember a woman telling the story
on youtube of how she became a vegan and
so she already had a degree in
nutritional science one of those she was
a nutritionist
one of those universities related to
nutrition
and diet and she had a conversation with
uh
a woman it was the first time she'd ever
heard about veganism but she already
knew nutritional science and she says oh
you know i'm sorry i see you you don't
eat meat like what situation and this
woman just said a few sentences about
veganism she said oh well actually i'm
vegan and she explains what a vegan diet
is
and um she then said to the the first
woman the one with the great
nutritionist said oh are you
are you vegan also
and she said
i never heard the word before
but i am now
she had already committed to veganism
listening to like
one paragraph
of texas one that's real life homie
like you know it can be about things big
and small i once met and talked to a guy
i could tell the whole story but there's
no point i met a talking guy who had
really lived in cuba
it's actually there's more than one guy
it could be think you have here i've
known a few different people who lived
in communist cuba
but there's one in particular one one
conversation i'm i'm thinking of and it
changed the way i saw and felt about
cuba forever you know you meet someone
who's been there and lived with that
regime lived with that that political
system and i didn't have to think about
it i didn't fight i don't sit down at
the table or go into the comment section
you know defending cuba or something no
but you know it's like i went into that
i thought i already had a good sense
basically from reading university
textbooks i think i hadn't read or
thought about cuba at all since i was in
university i'd read a certain kind of
very dry political science analysis of
cuba
and then you meet someone who's actually
lived with it you go whoa i don't know
cute like whoa you know i i
you know now how i feel about and think
about has changed you know i realized
the extent to which my university
textbooks were actually kind of
whitewashing the situation and how
horrible it is so you know that's that's
real life that's real
learning and i just say you can learn
things where nobody says a goddamn word
to you
you know you see something happen you
see it in a farmer's field you see it
for me it's a it's a great example but i
mean anyway sorry i've witnessed some
terrible things in my life you can see
it out of the window of your car as you
drive past you can see something and you
learn and you change and that's it
you know in one moment your life changes
forever okay that's real life
and what i'm saying to you is what
people do in comment sections and what
people do around the dinner table with
their own
their own family it's not real life and
that's not learning you know it's
fighting
and so i have to say uh in my subtle way
i'm really trying to oppose the
phoniness of that kind of fighting and
to inten instead i both demonstrate to
you and i invite you to participate in a
much realer and much deeper kind of of
learning you know and
by the way not to boast that's true
about my videos about hiding in my room
there's actually something to learn in
those videos you know there's something
really meaningful it's not just
drama or gossip on the internet i'd say
that's true about the videos i made
about finishing you know i'm really
trying to do something meaningful for
myself and others you know
and and that's not compatible with the
culture of the the comment section and
certainly in american and canadian
culture i feel it's not compatible with
the culture of the family which is where
most of us learn to talk and uh most of
us learn to fight
you know
okay we've got some agreement here about
the the uh the sheer honesty of uh
daniel hiding in my room
yep ron sims is saying this is how most
families including mine was so you know
what i'm talking about
everyone everyone goes back to the same
role the next day i had one friend and
one okay both of his parents were
protestant but one of them had converted
from catholicism to protestantism and
still had some catholic elements of his
thing and every night they fought like
every night it was like you know
uh the wife felt the husband couldn't be
christian enough
it never it never went away they never
made progress you know
she hated it he he still read
the catholic version of the bible in
english it's not the protestant verse
and uh they can go to dinner tomorrow
and have the same courses do you want to
say this a bit i'm uh wondering where
else
we had some discussions yeah
all right
um
okay
i started this the discussion of taoist
philosophy and how these questions are
still meaningful in my life or how this
kind of vocabulary is still meaningful
my life the other part of the titleist
video is talking about being yourself
and i think everyone here will be very
leery of
our culture of just be yourself just do
your own thing
very often it's nothing more than excuse
for laziness it may be an excuse for
intellectual laziness it may be an
excuse for a lack of curiosity a lack of
taking risks a lack of being daring
because you just have to be yourself
it's to a large extent an excuse to only
do things you already know how to do
things you're already comfortable doing
um not to expand intellectually in terms
of experience not to push your limits
not to try to be somebody other than you
are somebody better than you are more
than you are uh so on so on and so forth
that's
what what it what it all tends to come
down to right but this taoist discourse
that i've been quoting to you or
paraphrasing to you and and discussing
with you it gives us somewhat different
inflection to that
paradigm that gives us gives us a
somewhat different angle on that
hackneyed turn of phrase about being
yourself you know there's a joke in
shakespeare to thy own nature be true
but in the intro to this video i'm
raising the question up to what extent
to what extent do we grow by working
with our nature to what extent do we
grow working despite our nature now
there is nobody
alive who has known me through the
different chapters of my life i don't
have any friends who knew me
across these multiple chapters and since
i became micro famous on youtube since i
started a few thousand views i've
reached out to a few of the people who
knew me like in high school
hoping they would just come on and
do like a skype call with me do a live
stream or do a conversation with me
whether in real life or over skype or
what have you
i've been interested in talking to
people who can see how much i've changed
and we're you're not just hearing it
from me that i've changed but you got
someone else saying dude you've changed
dude i knew you when you were 16 or i
knew you were right i knew you and
you're 22 or you know whatever it is
um
you know
if there were anyone who knew me from
one chapter of my life to the next to
the next to the next you know i think
they could really say
look isil you are someone who tried for
so many years to improve by working
against your own nature rather than with
it and that was very true of me
so as with the beginning of the video
i'm gonna give you one sexy example and
one non-sexy example but you know the
sexy example you guys have already
guessed uh from from the start of the
video but look you know um
when i was still in high school
basically every course i chose
i chose intentionally
to take the courses that i would be the
worst at that i had no familiarity with
where i would be
out of my comfort zone that it wasn't
what i was good at so i didn't do i
meant whatever you think of my character
i didn't take art courses what have you
i took like the wood shop course i took
these really boring hands-on course i
was really trying to challenge myself to
grow that way and this could only last
for so many years but it's still when
you're young it's a big part of your
life i kept pushing myself to take these
courses that i wasn't interested in that
i had no experience with it's like oh
well i've never used a saw in my life
i've never worked with wood in a wood
shop in my life i even came up with my
girlfriend i took a course where you
learned to do electrical wiring with a
[ __ ] uh
soldering iron my girlfriend was
surprised that i know he's a soldering
iron i do you know um there was always
this sense of pushing myself
to do what i was least capable of at the
least uh you know experience with and
indeed things that were you know you you
can say you know contrary to my nature
and it's very easy to look at the period
of my life where i was involved in
buddhism
and to say this is the same thing on a
on a much grander scale you know so
that's that's the sexy part in brief i
mean you know guys i wasn't training to
be a buddhist monk for a significant
amount of time i was living in celibacy
and i was seriously thinking about
living the whole rest of my life in
celibacy which is a significant part of
my human nature that i was looking to
you know discard now i mean there are
other things you can talk about
discarding there i mean you know many of
you today may think of me as to some
extent somebody who's like a creative
writer creative artist
a creative intellectual in that sense
and by the way a political intellectual
right well if you're going into buddhism
in that sense whether it's a buddhist
monk or as some kind of
lay religious leader and scholar you're
giving up on politics you're giving up
on your own creativity and creative arts
you are embracing orthodoxy right and
you know i was also embracing
humanitarian work
you know there there's more there's more
to it than that it's not going to live
in a cave but it is helping the homeless
and all kinds of stuff and i'm saying
um
it is completely balefully true to say
of me that for large parts of my life
i was trying to grow i was trying to
become a better person by working
against my nature instead of working
with it
now this is
an example that's neither sexy nor
non-sexy
uh this is recent history how long have
i been divorced eight years something
like that seven years split up with my
wife
okay so melissa says seven and a half
years okay so about seven and a half
years ago
i split up with my ex-wife
start a whole new chapter in my life
again again nobody knows me from one
chapter next there is nobody alive who
can say isil i knew what you were like
when you were in england i knew what you
were like when you were living in france
i know what you were like when you were
living in taiwan and then i know what
you were like when you started living in
canada again on the west coast
nobody there is no continuity of any
friends or colleagues each period of my
life i had friends i did they're
different people with each period right
what did i do
when i split up with
my ex-wife i said okay
i'm gonna start a whole new chapter in
my life
i'm gonna really buckle down and i'm
gonna really conform
i'm gonna give up everything i care
about everything i wanna study
everything i wanna do with my career
everything every the kind of person i
want to be
i'm going to start studying a completely
new language chinese i'm going to start
a completely new career in academia
playing by their rules and like really
submitting to and assimilating myself
into
a hierarchical system i totally despise
right now in some ways i've got to tell
you this is a much more radical
self-abnegation than becoming a buddhist
monk this is much more contrary to my
nature now what do you mean by nature
we're talking about it in an explicitly
taoist sense here but i've talked about
this many times you know no matter how
humble or self-effacing i try to be
i walk into a room at the university of
victoria
where we're talking about the politics
and history of asia
and it's not on every subject
but it's on a lot of subjects the
professor picks up on the fact that i
know more than he does it's pretty much
always a male professor in one case a
female professor it's a male dominated
profession you know and you get to see
how different professors deal with that
and some of them have a meltdown some of
them they can't stand to have this
challenge to their authority no matter
how genuinely nice genuinely friendly
genuinely helpful i am uh in these in
these conversations you know so i could
now tell a whole bunch of anecdotes
really funny anecdotes about conflicts
between me and my professors right
but there is absolutely a sense in which
even if it's more subtle than
the issue of living in celibacy so you
can be a scholar of buddhism or or but a
smoke there's absolutely a sense in
which someone who knew me my whole life
since i was 14 or 16 or something could
look at this and say you're doing it
again
you're still the same kid who enrolled
in woodshop precisely because you don't
like woodshop because you think you can
grow you think you can become a better
person you think you can challenge
yourself in a useful way by doing
something that's contrary to your nature
and you're wrong what you've got to do
is work with your nature right
so you know
look
i've alluded to it in other videos
talking about other context but
obviously i've said when i was living in
a place like thailand enormous numbers
of women wanted to have sex with me and
normally i'm just talking about the
white women talking about like women
from germany and germany and sweden and
stuff women were there as tourists right
and i was completely set on this ancient
narrow path of virtue and i never had
sex with any of them and there were thai
women and everything else and of course
there is an argument someone could make
especially for somebody new me at 16 who
said someone could say look
you know you're a very loving person
you're a very warm person and you're
also an intellectual who really thrives
on having people in your life to talk to
that's one reason i talk to a camera you
know you're not actually a bookish
intellectual who can't deal with people
face to face or someone somebody wants
to have these warm
cooperative collaborative relations
people you should actually be sleeping
with these people you should actually be
getting people in your life and having
meaningful relationships and maybe some
of them whatever sleep with 50 people
maybe five of them become your friends
for the rest of your life or for the
next five years they're totally there
totally is a reading of how i live that
time of my life we have to say look you
were you were working against your own
nature you were doing this all wrong
right
um
so you know i just say look on different
chapters of my life there's a different
analysis there's a different you know
reading for this
but for me now i'm a mean old man i'm
old and i'm wise and i'm detached okay
when i just sit in the same room as
these [ __ ] professors at university
of victoria these people with phds when
i sit in the same room with professors
from cambridge university england and
oxford university i was a different time
in my life system
it is so [ __ ] obvious
that we are not on the same rank of the
food chain okay and
the idea that i would pay money for the
opportunity to sit with them
as opposed to them paying to sit and
talk to me is just [ __ ] laughable
and even if they haven't thought it
through if they haven't like mentated it
all the way through clearly right
that's also what they're dealing with
when they're sitting in that room with
me so just
you know look
i could give a i could really give a
hundred different examples from
different times in my life but one of
them that really struck me it's a useful
example
i went to a university in thailand so i
have to give a little bit of a story
here i was looking for university where
i could get a phd but i was already
really an expert in buddhism
uh i went to this university in thailand
and went alone and the university isn't
a okay what is remote in thailand okay
it was it was a long journey to get to
this university even though it's not
really remote but i had to take a train
and go to
this this campus
suburban campus okay
and then within the university they
actually had two different departments
of buddhism and they didn't get along
they hated each other so typical typical
for buddhism as a religion typical for
thailand you can imagine that within
christianity like there's the catholic
department of the protestant department
that hate each other but in this case
anyway not worth telling the whole story
as to why there are these two different
so i'm walking around i can read tai to
a limited extent i'm looking at the
signs i'm like well i'm looking for the
department of buddhism i'm looking for
this professor and getting all these
weird hostile things eventually i find
the professor
so sit down with them and start talking
to the professor
and we have this conversation and so
again you guys may not know that much
buddhism we're talking about teravata
buddhism this is the so-called southern
school of buddhism and of course right
from the beginning of the conversation
he's seen some of my work in my essays i
think i probably had samples to my
handwritten work too i used to do that
with i'd put them down on the table i'd
say look this is the level i'm at with
the language in terms of my handwriting
um so you could see right away i'm
really serious about this and this is
the level i'm at and we're sitting there
and talking and it's very clear i'm at
this very high level with with tariff
out of buddhism and also he and i know
some of the same professors so we're
kind of talking about some of those
people oh yeah you studied with this guy
oh i know him you recommend you know we
have we have some uh
we're within six degrees of separation
of each other some talk like that too
and
then there's this very interesting break
in the conversation
where he says okay look you know that's
great so you've studied the southern
school you studied terabyte of buddhism
you studied this school philosophy and
you're i recognized your experience and
he says but i have to tell you
um you know absolutely nothing about
buddhism and you're a complete beginner
to me uh your complete beginner compared
to me he says uh because you haven't
mastered the philosophy of nagarjuna and
if you study with me you have to accept
that you're starting all over again like
with a blank sheet of paper obviously
not his video that's my name because
you're going to study the philosophy of
nicaragua and he says just a few things
about the philosophy of negotiations
there's a different school of philosophy
and buddhism and the things he said are
are wrong they're they're beginners
you know
and so so he says this
and then i just sing and i don't say it
in a mean way at all i say oh no i
studied the velocity of the guardian up
for two years and i studied with this
professor and this phd student who both
read sanskrit fluently and they worked
on the sanskrit and i you know read in
english i was learning pali not sans
right but they're closer and i start
saying oh no what you just said about
nagarjuna that's a common misconception
based on this and i you know i can name
in sanskrit during this i'm naming the
works of nagarjuna and that i've read
them and who i read them with and and
i'm demonstrating that i'm on a higher
level of knowledge
i'm on higher level knowledge of this
this thing he's he's claiming
and
he started trembling
visibly
and he stood up
and uh i guess you could say he nodded
his head but it was more like his head
was kind of shaking
and he walked away silently he was he
was humiliated and
and [ __ ] up and i never heard from
again he never replied to an email again
and um
then i saw him i was in the same room
with him once before
and there was this other professor there
not going to tell this whole story but
there was another professor who was like
glommed onto me and was like
saying i'm a genius or i'm a great
talent or something he was i could tell
that whole story that's another
interesting story but i remember this
this first professor described the guy
who tried to one-up me with the
philosophy of the guardian i remember he
just looked at the two of us and he
stood there
really like afraid
and again just just walked away and the
professor i was with
he was like oh wow that's weird he's not
he's not normally that afraid of me and
i was like no it's it's me he's afraid
so sorry um
i'm sorry this is a long digression but
i feel if i don't give some examples
like that you guys might think this is
delusional or something you might think
that i this is just a feeling i have
when i'm in the room with these
professors but melissa has seen this
recently we sat down and had a two-hour
conversation with a professor who is
more than 50 years old and has a phd and
i sat and talked to him for two hours
and it's not the fact that i'm i'm sorry
so if this is me and this is him it's
not that i'm struggling to come up to
his level it's that i'm struggling to
come down to his level i'm speaking down
to him and i'm explaining things to him
it's like i'm talking to a teenager and
of course he's used to being in a
classroom where he talks to teenagers i
mean after the conversation i pointed
out to us look there were so many points
where i had to break something down and
explain to him it's like he's my student
and we were talking within his field of
expertise not mine you know and he's
making all kinds of he's making all
kinds of errors
that maybe a teenager shouldn't be
embarrassed to make but that a grown man
with a phd should be embarrassed to make
he's making very elemental errors of
of uh
fact and and reasoning you know so
anyway
um yeah so this is this is a real real
part of my life
[Laughter]
and by the way this comes back to the
guy who said at the beginning that this
stuff comes off as narcissism
it's a lamentation bro it's sad what's
this what i was gonna say
you were fighting against your nature in
some ways
yes
yeah i i think so
you know
um
you know so let's let's talk about
daniel
you know what is in his nature
what is you know what does he have to
share with the world now i have never
had sex with a prostitute
never now i can boldly say i never have
and i assume i never will
life is full of surprises what can i
tell you things might change okay and
i'll tell you also i feel that that is
not in my nature that's contrary to my
nature okay
this guy is completely shameless about
sleeping with prostitutes and talking
about it on the internet and by the way
he also does talk about the ways in
which it's kind of gross or kind of
disturbing i have heard him talk about
the like he doesn't just boast about it
or something he talks about the ways in
which it's kind of psychologically
worrying or disturbing okay
okay
so dude you know
you're talking about
deleting all your past videos
and going over to the squeaky clean
version of youtube content you say
you're gonna do a walking tour of osaka
or whatever the attra attraction is in
in japan dude
you are the guy
who can interview the prostitutes and
make
really honest videos talking about
prostitution in japan and i never could
like i can't do that
right like in this respect in terms of
this like brutally honest slightly
humiliating side of human nature like
dude and i'm telling you straight like
dude i
prostitutes are people too i do not
dehumanize prostitutes at all i think
they are normal people who chose to
become a prostitute and then this brings
on there are different consequences in
their life i am not talking about
dehumanizing or caricaturing prostitutes
at all like i have a i have a somewhat
feminist perspective on that right but
like
even if i tried to do that if i tried to
do this those women would feel like i'm
judging them and i would be in the
position of saying to them what i just
said to you i've never slept with a
prostitute once i feel like it's
contrary to my nature that would be
unnatural or immoral for me that's how i
feel again i'm not a member of a
religion i don't believe it's a
supernatural transcendental fact but
i've been i've been surrounded by
prostitution in countries like thailand
and france there's plenty of
prostitution in france you know i feel
like this is something that for me
would be evil let's be blunt right okay
so i can't like there's really like a
visceral sense in which i can't be the
one to do that interview
not even if i have the best of
intentions not if i say to the person
look i have a degree in political
science on a social science research
basis i want to interview you and and
share this with youtube or share this
with the world i want to tell the story
of what life is like here for you okay
but dude
you can do that effortlessly
and uh you can do that you can interview
the women you've slept with you can
build up trust with them by actually
sleeping with them and you can do videos
talking about that from the client's
perspective and from the woman's
perspective and from a political
perspective right like the point is
even if i look down on like some aspects
or frankly all aspects of who this guy
is and how he lives his life right i can
still see that like as an artist and as
a youtuber he has something really
valuable to contribute and
he can do that by working with his
nature not against it not by abnegating
and concealing and apologizing for who
he is and how he feels but by pressing
further on that same path of
confrontational honesty that made him a
success in the first place being honest
about who he is being honest about what
he wants being honest about what he's
willing and unwilling to do to get it
right
but then moving beyond just a
self-pitying self-examination to press
out to examine the world around you tell
other people's stories you know whether
it's literally the prostitutes you sleep
with or whatever tell other people's
stories talk about their perspective
don't just analyze yourself analyze the
society you're a part of analyze your
political surroundings even if that is
totally just from the shallow
perspective of a guy who cares about
nothing but getting laid on tinder i
think that's a window into society and
politics also right
what if it's a window into you know he's
talked about also sleeping with uh
single moms talk about divorce and the
the plight of uh you know single mothers
in japan i know it's a very i haven't
read a little bit about that you know
women who've been married and divorced
and are raising a kid they're in this
very tough position and it's very hard
for them to find a new husband and their
their social status and so on there are
so many issues like like even
put it this way
issues that are really shallow that he
could deal with in a rigorously honest
way
that is working with his nature
not against it that that could be so
valuable and he thinks
he can be something more he thinks he
can be someone more he thinks he can be
a better person by abnegating by
deleting his own nature and he's wrong
he'll only be less like if he tries to
give up being this
honest
libidinous
uh what other polite latin word can i
use
epicurean character this overly honest
libidous epicurean character you know
you know
it's not going to be by you know the
crane trying to imitate the sparrow it's
not going to be by the sparrow trying to
imitate the crane you have to embrace
your nature and not regard it as a limit
to what you can be not regarded as a
stereotype you have to live within you
have to say these are the
characteristics you can work with and
then working with them see how you can
grow
are you going to say jump in
so it would be one thing you know some
people who have made the commitment to
putting porn online of themselves yes
that they would
regret that yes retract it and say go on
tour speaking tours saying that they
regret going into porn it would be one
thing if that was what he was doing but
he's not ashamed of it so why didn't he
just right
right continue right right i agree so
look so i mean in some ways that's the
that's the saddest thing of all right
okay so look again
so so mango in the audience
mangomange says quote but his nature is
introverted no it's not
okay this guy uploads hardcore porn of
himself to only fans he's not
introverted
he's not shy
he's not he's not he's lazy he's a video
game addict you know what i'm saying a
great question michael asks have you
ever corresponded directly with
hiding in my room with daniel i wrote to
him
before this video was posted to let him
know that this video will be online and
hopefully sooner or later he clicks on
the link he might or might not be asleep
right now in terms of the british time
zone i have sent him a few messages on
instagram that he has never replied to
which is fine i'm sure he gets a lot of
messages and i think he's only
interested in messages that come from
good looking women so you know
i've chosen not to catfish him in this
uh in this respect but no you know um
yeah he is someone who already took the
plunge he is someone who already uh
uh you know who already committed to
doing hardcore porn you know to sharing
that with the world so i feel like
what he thinks the path forward is
is to try to delete
and conceal and pretend to be ashamed of
all the characteristics that make him
distinctively him and again this is
contrasted to being yourself
yes
preach
if you want to be with somebody
shouldn't you be with somebody that you
can be honest with and if you aren't
ashamed of it find somebody who's also
not ashamed to do porn right not ashamed
to be honest right so you're right so
that's also it's a huge aspect of what i
didn't mention at all in this video okay
so what is i didn't say this what is
motivating him to delete his youtube
channel what is motivating him to
try to conceal who he really is and
start either start making completely
phony youtube content or delete his web
presence entirely
his answer is that he is terrified of
being alone that he what he really wants
is a wife or girlfriend and it's
interesting it's now singular he
apparently doesn't want to have many
sexual i don't know if i believe him i'm
just saying i've heard him talk a lot
about the fact that he felt he would
never be happy with one sexual partner
and if so
be honest with yourself and be honest
with your girlfriend or wife about that
don't lie to yourself and don't lie to
her if you are not a one-woman man if
you are not a guy who's uh who's gonna
be happy with just having sex with a
woman the rest of your life
don't don't lie about it now and tell
the truth about it later tell the truth
uh up front
um
so yeah the the so however i do think
that what i said earlier is is at least
as true and is maybe more true when i
just talked about the extent to which he
has suffered and still is suffering
because you see that a lot he is
suffering because people ridicule him
about his ex-wife and his divorce
there's a lot of harassment there's a
lot of denunciation he feels like this
has brought uh he this brought a lot of
negative things in his life which it
obviously has
yeah james showed up late it's a hell of
a video james you go back
it's a roller coaster it has highs and
lows it really does it really does
it's a whole it's a whole hour and a
half long movie
no credits at the end no intro no outro
just real talk
okay but like instead of him having the
confidence this comes back to what i
said about a meaningful life before too
even though we're talking about a pretty
meaningless life oh someone wants me to
talk about the canadian election good
luck you don't pay me enough you don't
pay me enough to denigrate myself that
way henry you want me to talk about the
canadian election [ __ ] you
[Laughter]
um
all right so you know he's in this
situation where he feels women reject
him women won't date him
uh these are women who are shy
conflicted about their sexuality they're
women who are afraid of appearing on
youtube they're women who are
understandably afraid of being with a
man who does hardcore porn on only fans
right
okay so one option what he's presuming
is the only option is for him to try to
lie and obfuscate and abnegate and
conceal who he really is but the other
option is for him to press further right
is to seek out personal growth that is
in accordance with his nature and not
contrary to it right like another option
is for him to try to include in his life
and spend time with precisely people who
you know
uh
precisely people who accept
uh his making hardcore pornography
whether that's because they make
hardcore pornography themselves or they
may be you know they may be
unconventional intellectuals like to
give an example i'm sure in japan there
probably are feminists who just out of a
commitment to kind of feminist
philosophy are sex positive and
pro-pornography and and would be happy
to be friends with someone like that
would share their life with a guy who
does hardcore porn and would regard it
as something liberating and positive for
him and for society just but they
themselves don't do porn they don't even
watch porn so there are people there are
people who whether philosophically or
just from their own life experience are
really are really accepting of that and
instead he's trying to put himself in
this box where you know he thinks he's
trying to be more but he's really trying
to be less he's
you and i said this to each other when
we watch this video he's trying to be a
nobody you know
and it's so ironic because if you look
at this guy's career and i i know it
because he was so honest about youtube
dude
every single woman who slept with you
did so because you were a somebody
not because you were a nobody and
obviously whether it's for the sake of
your love life or for your life as a
creative artist or an intellectual or
just as a man as a human being on earth
obviously you need to press further with
being a somebody and not trying to make
yourself into this anonymized non-entity
you know uh being a being a nobody but
like you know even before he was on
youtube before he had youtube fame right
he went to japan in a very particular
role as a half-white half-asian
english teacher as in english as a
second language teacher he showed up and
he was he worked very hard as a student
of the japanese language he learned to
speak uh japanese as a you know
as a foreigner so on and so forth you
know so i know it may not be as obvious
as being a famous youtuber and having
women sleep with you but no you were
already a somebody you arrived in japan
with a mission and an identity and a
story and you weren't like other guys
like you realize for japanese women 99.9
of their options are japanese men and
you were someone who was saying without
saying a word just being yourself you
were someone who was showing up saying
that you're really different from other
guys you're certainly a very
unconventional man we've learned over
the years of your uploading just how
unconventional you are morally
intellectually and otherwise you're not
an average japanese guy you're not an
average british guy you're a very
unusual guy with your own you know your
own character your own sense of mission
so yeah james asked a great question
james says did i miss the taoism part
james the whole video is the taoism part
you may not realize it but we are
talking about taoist philosophy right
now because we're talking about what it
means to be yourself and do your own
thing and act in accordance with your
own nature uh
you know this is a core element of
dallas philosophy however translatable
or or untranslatable it may be so baby
do you have a comment of that i mean
you know i can see something challenging
once to jump in now then i'll ask you a
question
okay
i think it's a fantasy
that you can erase your past
find somebody that wants a an anonymous
guy like a nobody and that you'd find
some sense of contentedness in this just
like having a partner and being like you
say a one-woman man
that's that's what i have to say i think
it's a fantasy and
some people who are famous
have this fantasy of being a nobody they
want to just anonymize themselves again
they want to know what it's like from
the other side
especially when they're famous brought
them a lot of suffering too yeah which
yes which i sympathize with as i said
um
you know
so when melissa and i were first falling
in love with each other you know she
read an article i wrote
and i said to her since she obviously
she'd seen a lot of my youtube videos
i said to her well look if you've read
this article and that's the man you want
to be with
then we should really get together and
make this happen because that's who i
really am like you know that article
shows you who i really am
for me because you know if you're
meeting someone over the internet it's
there's a concern like is it really me
you're interested in or is it some
illusion or some delusion is it
something you assume about me or imagine
about me is some fantasy you have about
me
and after she read this article and she
just gave me a very short comment okay
well if that's the man you want to be
with the man who wrote that article then
you know buy the airplane ticket and
come over let's let's figure out the
airplane tickets because you know that's
you know that's that's who i really am
now
okay so in case you don't know what the
article is about it's about like the
history of chinese politics and the war
is war that took place between japan and
russia and the history of communism it's
it's not an autobiographical essay it's
not me talking about my feelings or my
childhood or something it's an essay
dealing with the history and politics of
asia um
okay
but like you know this dude back when he
was making really honest youtube content
he could say the same thing to any woman
right and and that's what you should
aspire to do again whether you're going
to be alone whether you're going to have
one monogamous partner or whether you're
going to sleep with a whole bunch of
different women which might include
prostitutes it might include fans like
you know groupies might include like you
know it's not inconceivable that this
guy could have a kind of multiple
partner life and it might include some
women who have a kind
you know they they appreciate you for
what you are but they don't really want
to raise kids with you you know i mean
women who have a kind of medium
commitment long-term relationship with
you where they're not they're not your
wife but they're they're someone who's
in your life and involved with your life
positive way now
okay here's the thing melissa is saying
it's a fantasy
to think that you can change and just
become another person i know i'm good
and it's a fantasy to say you can delete
your past
right okay but but you were saying it's
a fantasy delete your past in order to
be another person i think that's a fair
uh summation of of what you said you
know yeah uh because it is because it
wasn't it wasn't deleting your password
it was deleting your past in order to
become the person okay so that's partly
true
but the other thing that's true is that
who you are really does change whether
you want to change or not right and i do
actually sympathize with him wanting to
delete old videos when he looks at those
old videos and he sees they're really
honest but they're honest about who i
was that's who i was back then
and this is who i am now i've changed so
much i'm so different
that i can relate to and again nobody's
known me through
multiple chapters but of course i've
changed and even if i didn't want to
change
i've changed all right so i'm just
saying
i would not say to this dude look you
should always live up to your old
youtube videos where you were honest
and you know and say to women hey if
you've watched my old youtube videos
and you you have a crush on that guy or
you're interested in the guy on youtube
video well that's who i really am so we
should meet up and no i get that but
what he should do is in his art in his
authorship what he should aspire to do
now what he should aspire to do today
is to create videos where he can really
say this is who i really am
and if someone gets a crush on this guy
in this video if someone relates to this
someone wants to meet this guy they're
just interested they're just curious
they just think this is an interesting
guy they may not fall in love with you
right away you know where you can say in
my art in my filmmaking in my essay
writing book you are seeing who i really
am in a really meaningful and profound
way you know even if it's about
something shallow where you're at that
level of commitment you know what i mean
so so if you if you like what you see
and then you send me an email i can say
well we really should meet up you know
and that's the way for you to not be
alone it's not through concealing who
you are and then they only find out
later you're this [ __ ] who sleeps
with prostitutes no own it you know
share who you are and
right don't don't lie about it now and
then tell the truth about it later right
and what kind of woman is going to have
a crush on somebody who says well i'm
deleting all my passwords that make me
look bad right in order to find a
partner
right that doesn't make sense to me
right well it's a woman you're going to
deceive yeah and
a relationship based on deception yes
but i think it's also
your opinion of yourself is increasingly
based on deception right that's it
you're lying to yourself about
about who you who you really are
so sam walsh says sympathetic comment
from sam sam says quote from what little
i've seen of him you can see plenty of
on my own channel i have a playlist of
videos there's the hiding in my room
playlist by the way you just search for
himr on the playlist
uh sam says quote from a little i've
seen of him he's he's very sad and
isolated but nevertheless is resistant
to real change and instead opts for
escapism through his youtube videos
video games etc yes
but you know uh correct um nacho said so
babe can you just turn on that light for
me let's just have a slight lighting
change
uh nacho says quote so do you regret
doing these things in your own life that
went against your own nature
yeah thanks babe
um
seriously did you hear that question
babe yeah
so look nacho um
the the
the answer that question you have to
think of as like two lines on a chart
you know
and
you know the question is how much more
could i have developed and progressed as
a person in what ways could i be a
better person today if i had worked with
my nature instead of against it right
that's that's really the question
now
the the thing is so if you haven't been
watching this video from the start we
are talking about a very taoist sense of
nature and of one's own nature so
obviously if you are a 10 year old kid
and all you know is playing video games
and watching movies and eating hot dogs
like you know this is your life as a 10
year old right that's what you like to
do and that's how you know how to enjoy
your life
many people they go from 10 years old to
20 years old at 20 years old they still
say well look this is who i am i've just
got to be myself i've just got to sit
around in my pajamas and play video
games and eat hot dogs and watch movies
or whatever there are
there are people who stay on that so
that is not the sense in which we mean
uh nature here but yeah i was someone
who challenged my self to grow by doing
things contrary to my own nature
obviously including living and celibacy
for long periods of time
um
and you know the question is how much
more
uh could i have developed you know by by
by working with my nature instead of
instead of against it so you know also i
mean obviously this huge huge sense is
what if i had really remained a creative
artist consistently tomorrow in any in
any medium or all what if i'd continued
with creative writing but what it
doesn't matter instead of trying again
and again to force myself
into various forms of really being a
non-creative
uh intellectual it's very contrary to my
nature and you know again also trying in
some ways to live a life that was
non-political you know i mean you might
think i'm trying to force myself into
politics in a lot of ways i'm trying to
force myself out of politics in each
chapter of my life it's a different
story it's different in toronto than it
is in thailand you know but um sure you
know so there are questions of where i
could where i could be at uh today
but as you get the sense i mean i'm i'm
not saying it's all bad
um you know obviously um
[Music]
you know
i've had a wonderful life and i'm very
happy with the person i am now
uh but sure i mean it fundamentally it's
completely tragic and ridiculous to have
studied as many languages i've studied
and to have you know to have dissipated
what energy and talent and genius you
have in life to have dissipated it into
you know so many different fields and so
much different experience now reciprocal
with that is of course you know i meet
people who've lived and worked i mean
people are computer programmers and all
they've ever done is sit and work on
computer programming
well you know um
i know what it's like to stand in a
field of sesame flowers in bloom i know
what it's like to really be involved in
farming in a third world tropical
country and to really care about farming
you
know
i'm not going to tell you that's who i
am it's not it's not who i you know i
mean it's not some part of my identity
but you know i've had a lot of
experiences like that that are
every bit as far removed from
you know
you know my nature you know they're
really challenging me really really
strange
challenging experiences and there's
there's some sense in which i benefit
from that and carry that carry that with
me
and i do think there's a sense in which
other people can never replicate that
through tourism like if you are a
computer programmer and you go on
vacation in laos and cambodia and you
see the same field of sesame flowers in
bloom or you go and see the same
starving people and you hand them sacks
of rice i wasn't frequent but i did
literally do that i did literally hand
out sacks of rice that a united nations
logo on the sack to uh starving people
you know if you do that as a vacation
you will never know the agony and you
will never experience it with the
intensity and depth and intellectual
intellectual and emotional involvement i
had precisely because i was trying to do
this for the rest of my life like i was
trying to do this as a career i wasn't
trying to learn enough ocean to get
through my my vacation i was studying
the lao language the assumptions i was
going to speak this when i was 80 years
old when i was an old man i was working
so hard i was working on pally and
buddhism and history and politics like
you know the level of commitment and the
level of engagement
and what all those things meant to me
the vividness of that that comes from
the total commitment to it and by the
way um
really really short story really really
funny story to me i met a vietnam war
veteran i had many conversations with
old these were old men at that time
already they were old men with gray hair
who had fought in the vietnam war and
now they were coming back as tourists to
travel around that that part of the
world
see see what had become of it since the
the war ended anyway i had this long
conversation with a vietnam war veteran
and um
interesting guy
and he did something like intelligence
work he talked to me a little bit he was
not a normal soldier um i could pin down
a little bit more precisely what kind of
work he did was probably no point but he
was not a he was not just in the pulling
triggers business in the war
we had this long conversation
with different things in politics and
history
and then at the end of the conversation
it was when we had paid the bill
um
he said to me
no contacts the following he said you
know what you have to do to make your
life work out here
he said
pay the rent
on an apartment or condominium or a
whole house
back in california back in the united
states where you're from i'm actually
canadian but he assumes that's
california you know
and make sure
you know you've paid all the bills
so the lights are running the air
conditioning is running so there's a car
in the drive so everything's
everything's there
so that the minute you get pissed off
the minute you lose your patience with
life out here
in cambodia in laos you know these
places that you could just get on an
airplane go home and your bed is waiting
for you your whole home is whatever all
the conversation ready you can just go
back
and at any moment you can do it and i
think his point was you can do this
repeatedly you could like then fly back
again
any time
you know
i remember sitting there and saying to
him um
everything i own
in this world
fits in
one backpack
you know i back in canada or like back
in the united states i own nothing like
there's no when i go out there there's
nothing waiting for me and there's
nobody waiting which was true i had no
friends back in canada i was not on
speaking terms with any of my relatives
no family nobody's gonna meet me at the
airport like like no no no my dude this
this is the only life i have right
so you know i went through those those
experiences with this level of this
level of absolute commitment absolute
engagement you know and by the way i
think you can feel this
um
you know right now with this youtube
video that's how i do youtube also it's
with this much higher level of
commitment it's also why i get upset
answering some of these questions to the
audience
this isn't an act this is who i really
am or even if it is an act the act is
who i am i mean i'm not i'm not sure
those are those are separable you know
people are some extent their actions and
our act our actions become us and we
become our actions you know
um
but you know that this is who i really
am and i do this also with this very
very high level of of engagement
commitment so yeah i think that's
probably a good place to stop because
you know i think that does also state
what i feel i have in common with
anymore the kind of kinship
i have with him is precisely that he he
brings to it or in his best videos
brought to it you know that
that same
over-the-top unbelievable level of of
honesty
where anyone could look at those videos
and say wow you know that's
that's who he really is so look you know
um
you can change you know you can
and who you were
does not define who you are or who you
will be you really can fundamentally
change and with this dude the most
obvious example is
you can quit video games
today
forever and who you are would change in
ways you can't even imagine if you've
it's another one you can quit coffee
i have experience with this i've quit
coffee many times i know he drinks
coffee every day because he shows it on
camera all the time
you do not know how much you would
change your character your behavior your
intellectual and emotional
you know kind of range
you could quit video games you could
quit coffee you know you can change you
know
however
um
you know it is his honesty that made him
a somebody
and of course when you're being honest
about being a terrible person
it's very hard to perceive honesty as a
virtue
but it is
it is a virtue and i've already conceded
this earlier in the video but i can say
it again briefly and i can go further
i think that he is capable of being
honest about things and being a
filmmaker making videos about things
that i could never be honest about and
that i could never make
films of them you know what i mean
um
and i think that a lot of those topics
they matter to a lot of people more than
the things i'm passionate about the
things i want to make films about the
things i want to talk about honestly in
in videos you know
um
but you know how so you can change
you can
but
you know the art of learning and
developing and personal growth is not to
be less
it's to be more and i said this before
we'll say it again it has a different
meaning for you now in this context you
know if you're going to be a youtuber
you've got to be willing to get your
heart broken
and come back again and again and again
get your heart broken you get
disappointed say okay you know that was
bad and now i'm going to come on camera
i'm going to do it again i and by the
way i know you know like melissa's uh
filmmaking it may seem relatively dry
and academic i mean compared to my
videos it doesn't have this kind of
anguished personal quality
but it's a it's a heartbreaking process
for melissa also she puts a lot into
these videos so she works for a huge
number of hours on a draft that never
gets uploaded on a version of a video
and goes back and does it all over again
back to the drawing board as they say
you know there's there's a lot of
anguish and a lot of suffering you know
but your model of
personal growth the way in which you're
going to improve as a person it can't be
through concealment
right it can't be from concealing from
others who you really are or what you
desire which i'm right it can't be
through self-abnegation it can't be
through subtraction it can't be through
being less right you have to find a way
to grow that's in keeping with your
nature not in a state of denial of it
not acting against it right you have to
find a way to grow and be more than you
are be a better person than you are but
where you're building on and growing out
of you know the person that you were
um
okay i know exactly what i want to sit
next let's just glance here comment
question guys for a second if you guys
want to say something
i have a lot to say
um
i had a friend
and uh
he had been uh in and out of
mental institutions in and out of uh
insane asylums frankly
and he had also been in and out of jail
so he had both been institutionalized in
terms of going to
psychiatric institutions and
prison and you can imagine a very
strange view
of sexual relations with women
one of the love affairs that i think
really shaped him in life
he had a love affair
inside one of the
mental institutions with a
woman his own age but who was there
getting psychiatric treatment also and
so on
so whereas a lot of people their first
sexual experiences are in university or
something this is his he had a very
different you know path of developing
those
those those perceptions and so on
and
you know
um i remember so this is the kind of
conference he was he was an intelligent
guy
but deeply troubled and really
unfamiliar with
a lot of the kind of unspoken rules and
secret philosophy of love and relations
in our culture
and i said to him it's the simplest
thing but it's really deep and it's
really important i said to him
you know
what does it mean to you
[Music]
to want to be loved by
a good woman
what does good mean in that sentence so
the whole vocabulary this was totally
unfamiliar
right i said look this is the reality of
who you are
and not every man is like this
okay
there are men
who will take whatever they can get
and will get
whatever they can take
not you
you don't go to nightclubs
you don't go to bars
you don't want to sleep with any woman
you can get you don't want to sleep with
the most attractive when you get you
don't want to sleep with prostitutes you
don't want this you don't want that you
know and you may not even have thought
about that you might even thought about
all the people you're rejecting all the
time right
you have a very fixed notion
of what is morally good in a woman that
you haven't even examined like he
literally had never thought about it yet
and those are the only women you pursue
because it's only when you're with those
women that you're going to feel good
about yourself
if you sleep with a prostitute you this
particular guy not all men this
particular if you pay a prostitute to
have sex with you you feel like [ __ ]
and this particular guy i could say i
knew some of his prejudices
if he slept with a girl he regarded as
very stupid and unsophisticated who had
uh well look let's just leave with that
but i could i know this particular guy's
prejudices but he if he slept with
someone who was an uneducated bumpkin or
something somewhat just no
sophistication whom he somehow you know
kind of talked into having sex with them
or
to both season you you would
have
contempt for yourself right
you have a notion of of what's good
and it's not just a judgment on these
women it's it's a judgment on yourself
as a judgment on who you want to be
and how you want to be loved to validate
that opinion of yourself the sense of
who you of who you ought to be
um
now a lot of you in this audience
thanks griff thanks taking time we had
some people early in the in the live
stream we didn't appreciate the
discussion so it's nice to hear some
people guys
thanks chris
um
i think a lot of people in this audience
you already know that
like probably what i'm saying to you
even if you've never talked about it
with a friend or you've never looked in
the mirror and said that probably a lot
of you are like oh yeah
you know i guess i've always known that
maybe since you were 14 years old or
something you're like you know what
that's true the reason why i don't want
to sleep with someone who i think is a
scumbag is because i don't want to feel
like i'm a scumbag and i don't want to
feel like i'm a scumbag lover and i
don't want to feel like only scumbags
can appreciate me because of my
scumbag-ness i like you know you want to
be with someone who has redeeming
qualities and recognizes redeeming
qualities in yourself and there's a kind
of
you know validation and aspiration built
into
that loving relationship okay so
i get it
this guy has gotten to a point in his
personal development intellectual
emotional and ethical development where
he looks back at who he was just a few
years ago
and he feels contempt for who that man
is and he looks at the women
who are willing to [ __ ]
that guy with that reputation on the
internet and he used to chase them he
used to just
he used to have no druthers he wanted to
sleep with every groupie he could get
every girl who looked at his youtube
videos and saw he was famous and got in
touch with him on instagram and was
even when he was married he wanted to
cheat on his wife with any halfway
decent looking
female who would meet up with them which
in most cases those women who were
responding to his fame but you know to
give credit some of these women they may
have liked
what they saw in the video they might
have really been responding to who he
was and his honesty and you know
you know and now he looks back at the
man he was and he looks at the women he
was with and he sees that the man he was
was a scumbag
and that the women he was with right
they're only validating
you know this
ethical emotional and intellectual
identity he used to have and it's not
the end that he has now or it's not the
idea he wants to have
in the future he feels that he wants to
be with
precisely the kind of woman who would
reject
what they see on his youtube channel
what they see in his youtube videos in
the past and why does he want that it's
not just to have sex
right if it if it's just sex it could be
a prostitute it could be a woman you
mean the nightclub it could be anyone
right
it's not just sex it's because of who he
is
and the tension between who he was
and who he wants to be
so he wants a woman
to validate
you know
his aspiration to be a better man
and the problem is he's going about it
exactly the wrong way he's going about
it by deleting
everything positive and distinctive
about himself instead of building on it
instead of working with his nature to be
more to be better right
instead
instead of being a somebody
you know he's trying to be a nobody he's
trying to retreat into the shadows he's
trying to be an inoffensive shy
non-entity who has nothing positive to
to author offer the world you know what
what
it's not like he's making up a story
that he's not making up a false identity
that he did that he's a medical doctor
and did something wonderful with his
life in these years right
what he did accomplish was in some ways
wonderful and in some ways terrible in
some ways awful right and he's just
trying to delete that so he can be this
non-descript non-entity because if he he
thinks if you can get back to this
neutral zero point of anonymity
of indistinctness
you know
of just being a man
any man you know
rather than a particular man with a
particular character in particular
accomplishments and a particular voice
in particular advantages you know of a
particular kind of creative artist
right that that's the way
that he can be loved
by the kind of woman who will make him
feel good about himself that will make
him feel that he's a good person
all right that is my reading ultimately
of the tragedy of daniel of hiding my
room and here's the saddest part of all
he's probably going to do it and it's
probably going to work
okay if you see this video daniel i want
you to visualize two paths that are
branching out in front of you right one
of them is
you go back to japan
and you embrace who you really are
and you get out there and you sleep with
prostitutes and you don't conceal who
you are you say to them really honestly
and openly that yeah you're also a sex
worker you do hardcore porn on only fans
and you say yeah you have a youtube
channel where you talk about this life
and you talk about your own life and
you're really honest and that you were
somewhat notorious you know on youtube
for this or that in the past you could
say whatever and you can talk to those
prostitutes and talk and say yeah you
know i want to do a video talking about
the history of this neighborhood you
know and probably like every
neighborhood in japan probably was
destroyed in world war ii and then it
was rebuilt and you know a history of
the local mafia crime families there
that's probably that's the typical
you know prostitution area in japan or
something you know um there will be
interests and you can talk to her about
that and then once you've got some
mutual trust you know you're like say
you know what i'd like to make to make a
youtube video and you probably don't
want to show her face i want to make
youtube video and we just show your
hands and let's talk about your life
let's not just make the analysis of me
and you you know what bro like there's
this path in front of you
where
and again i think ultimately it's
political ultimately what's the point
right the point isn't just
self-indulgence the point is to really
learn something about human nature and
politics and how we can have a better
society and future and you know there's
a lot this will have to learn but there
really is you're like i can see so much
positive that comes out of that it's to
humanize the sex workers and put a human
face on these political issues and
consequences and what are you putting
human face on the yakuza put a human
face on gangsters they're human beings
too you know
whatever whatever you're gonna do look
you know there's one path in front of
you
where you really
work with your nature right and then the
other path is the one you've described
yourself in your recent youtube videos
which is that you go back to japan you
delete your youtube videos either you
delete the whole channel or you delete
90 of them you start using a different
name you grow a beard like this is his
plan is to grow a beard to look
different you change your up here i know
maybe you dye your hair blonde right you
know you start using a different name
different hairstyle different beard and
you get a tinder profile
where you're just some guy
you're just nobody
and then you expect
some japanese woman who's also a nobody
to love you because what you have in
common is your own nothingness
okay daniel i think if you've if you've
seen this video you know what the right
direction for you to take is okay and
it's the direction that's ultimately
creative rather than destructive because
there is something destructive when you
act against your own nature
as sad and strange as this may sound you
know
you'll be killing someone daniel okay
because you will be destroying the man
who
you truly are